1.	Mack, M.J., 2001. Minimally invasive and robotic surgery. Jama, 285(5), pp.568-572.
The methodological innovations in surgery are only beginning. For the first time, it is possible for surgeons neither to look directly at nor touch the tissues or organs on which they operate. Building on the precedent of pelviscopy in gynecology and arthroscopy in orthopedic surgery, the use of minimally invasive approaches into other surgical specialties, including general surgery, urology, thoracic surgery, plastic surgery, and cardiac surgery, has changed not only the performance of specific operations but more important the strategic approach to all surgeries.The pain, discomfort, and disability, or other morbidity as a result of surgery is more frequently due to trauma involved in gaining access to the area to perform the intended procedure rather than from the procedure itself.

2.	Li, J., Song, D. and Shi, C., 2026. Robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery. In Intelligent Medicine: Fundamentals to Future Perspectives (pp. 165-188). Woodhead Publishing.
Robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery has been emergingly introduced and received widespread recognition in various surgical procedures by extending surgeons’ capacity and skills, thus representing a significant paradigm shift in surgical scenarios. This chapter summarizes the development trend from multiple-port surgical robotic systems and single-port surgical robotic systems to flexible robotic endoscopic systems and presents the milestones of robotic systems. Technical advances regarding the surgical robotic systems have been detailed and future prospects are discussed.

3.	Haidegger, T., Speidel, S., Stoyanov, D. and Satava, R.M., 2022. Robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery—Surgical robotics in the data age. Proceedings of the IEEE, 110(7), pp.835-846
Telesurgical robotics, as a technical solution for robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery (RAMIS), has become the first domain within medicosurgical robotics that achieved a true global clinical adoption. Its relative success (still at a low single-digit percentile total market penetration) roots in the particular human-in-the-loop control, in which the trained surgeon is always kept responsible for the clinical outcome achieved by the robot-actuated invasive tools. Nowadays, this paradigm is challenged by the need for improved surgical performance, traceability, and safety reaching beyond the human capabilities.

4.	V. Vitiello, S. -L. Lee, T. P. Cundy and G. -Z. Yang, "Emerging Robotic Platforms for Minimally Invasive Surgery," in IEEE Reviews in Biomedical Engineering, vol. 6, pp. 111-126, 2013, doi: 10.1109/RBME.2012.2236311.
Recent technological advances in surgery have resulted in the development of a range of new techniques that have reduced patient trauma, shortened hospitalization, and improved diagnostic accuracy and therapeutic outcome. Despite the many appreciated benefits of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) compared to traditional approaches, there are still significant drawbacks associated with conventional MIS including poor instrument control and ergonomics caused by rigid instrumentation and its associated fulcrum effect. The use of robot assistance has helped to realize the full potential of MIS with improved consistency, safety and accuracy.

5.	Johansson, B., Eriksson, E., Berglund, N. and Lindgren, I., 2021. Robotic surgery: review on minimally invasive techniques. Fusion of Multidisciplinary Research, An International Journal, 2(2), pp.201-210.
Robotic surgery represents a significant advancement in minimally invasive techniques, offering enhanced precision, flexibility, and control compared to traditional methods. This review explores the evolution, benefits, and current applications of robotic surgery in various medical fields. Utilizing robotic systems such as the da Vinci Surgical System, surgeons can perform complex procedures through small incisions, resulting in reduced trauma, minimized blood loss, and faster recovery times for patients. Robotic surgery is particularly beneficial in fields like urology, gynecology, and cardiothoracic surgery, where precision is paramount. High-definition 3D visualization and articulated instruments allow surgeons to perform intricate movements with enhanced dexterity and accuracy. 

6.	Klodmann, J., Schlenk, C., Hellings-Kuß, A., Bahls, T., Unterhinninghofen, R., Albu-Schäffer, A. and Hirzinger, G., 2021. An introduction to robotically assisted surgical systems: current developments and focus areas of research. Current Robotics Reports, 2(3), pp.321-332.
Robotic assistance systems for diagnosis and therapy have become technically mature and widely available. Thus, they play an increasingly important role in patient care. This paper provides an overview of the general concepts of robotically assisted surgical systems, briefly revisiting historical and current developments in the surgical robotics market and discussing current focus areas of research. Comprehensiveness cannot be achieved in this format, but besides the general overview, references to further readings and more comprehensive reviews with regard to particular aspects are given.

7.	Omisore, O.M., Han, S., Xiong, J., Li, H., Li, Z. and Wang, L., 2020. A review on flexible robotic systems for minimally invasive surgery. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, 52(1), pp.631-644.
Recently, flexible robotic systems are developed to enhance minimally invasive interventions on internal organs located in confined areas of human body. These surgical devices are designed to navigate anatomical pathways via single-port access, such as natural orifices or minimal incisions and intraluminal interventions. With improved precision, spatial flexibility and dexterity, the robotic technology can enhance surgery such that minimally invasive flexible access would become a faster, safer, and more convenient method for intra-body interventions without multiple or wide incisions. However, a lot of works are still required for global acceptance of existing flexible robotic surgical platforms. 

8.	Vitiello, V., Kwok, K.W. and Yang, G.Z., 2012. Introduction to robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery (MIS). In Medical Robotics (pp. 1-P1). Woodhead Publishing.
It is well recognised that the performance of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) imposes an increasing burden on surgeons’ manual dexterity and visuomotor control. Tissue deformation, restricted workspace, and a limited field-of-view make manual operation of the procedure difficult. With the advent of robot assisted MIS, manual dexterity is enhanced by microprocessor controlled mechanical wrists, allowing motion scaling and tremor removal. Further enhancement of three-dimensional (3D) vision and intra-operative image guidance permits improved clinical uptake of the technology, ensuring better operative safety and consistency.

9.	Palep, Jaydeep H. Robotic assisted minimally invasive surgery. Journal of Minimal Access Surgery 5(1):p 1-7, Jan–Mar 2009. | DOI: 10.4103/0972-9941.51313.
The term “robot” was coined by the Czech playright Karel Capek in 1921 in his play Rossom's Universal Robots. The word “robot” is from the check word robota which means forced labor. The era of robots in surgery commenced in 1994 when the first AESOP (voice controlled camera holder) prototype robot was used clinically in 1993 and then marketed as the first surgical robot ever in 1994 by the US FDA. Since then many robot prototypes like the Endoassist (Armstrong Healthcare Ltd., High Wycombe, Buck, UK), FIPS endoarm (Karlsruhe Research Center, Karlsruhe, Germany) have been developed to add to the functions of the robot and try and increase its utility. Integrated Surgical Systems (now Intuitive Surgery, Inc.) redesigned the SRI Green Telepresence Surgery system and created the daVinci Surgical System® classified as a master-slave surgical system.
 
10.	Feng, M., Fu, Y., Pan, B. and Liu, C., 2012. Development of a medical robot system for minimally invasive surgery. The International Journal of Medical Robotics and Computer Assisted Surgery, 8(1), pp.85-96.
A medical robot system with a new mechanism for MIS was proposed to achieve a two-dimensional (2D) remote centre of motion (RCM). An improved surgical instrument was designed to enhance manipulability and eliminate the coupling motion between the wrist and the grippers. The control subsystem adopted a master–slave control mode, upon which a new method with error compensation of repetitive feedback can be based for the inverse kinematics solution. A unique solution with less computation and higher satisfactory accuracy was also obtained. Tremor filtration and trajectory planning were also addressed with regard to the smoothness of the surgical instrument movement.

11.	Sir Ara Darzi, Yaron Munz. 2004. The Impact of Minimally Invasive Surgical Techniques. Annual Review Medicine. 55:223-237.
The use of minimally invasive techniques (MIT) in patient care is well documented in ancient history; however, it was not until the 1990s that advancements in technology enabled surgeons to realize the true potential of this approach. The minimally invasive approach has revolutionized surgical care, significantly reducing postoperative pain, recovery time, and hospital stays with marked improvements in cosmetic outcome and overall cost-effectiveness. It is now used around the world and in all major fields of surgery, compelling changes in training programs in order to assure quality control and patient safety. The bond between surgeons practicing minimally invasive surgery (MIS) and the high-tech industry is of utmost importance to future developments. Surgical robotic systems represent the most technologically advanced product of this collaboration, and their potential application in MIS shows much promise. As technology advances, additional developments in MIT are likely.

12.	L. Qian, J. Y. Wu, S. P. DiMaio, N. Navab and P. Kazanzides, "A Review of Augmented Reality in Robotic-Assisted Surgery," in IEEE Transactions on Medical Robotics and Bionics, vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 1-16, Feb. 2020, doi: 10.1109/TMRB.2019.2957061.
Augmented reality (AR) and robotic-assisted surgery (RAS) are both rapidly evolving technologies in recent years. RAS systems, such as the da Vinci Surgical System, aim to improve surgical precision and dexterity, as well as access to minimally-invasive procedures, while AR provides an advanced interface to enhance user perception. Combining the features of both, AR-integrated RAS has become an appealing concept with increased interest among the academic community. In this paper, we review the existing literature about AR-integrated RAS. We discuss the hardware components, application paradigms and clinical relevance of the literature. The concept of AR-integrated RAS has been shown to be feasible for various procedures. Encouraging preliminary results include reduced sight diversion and improved situation awareness. Special techniques, e.g., activation-on-demand, are taken into consideration to address visual clutter of the AR interface and ensure that the system is fail-safe. Although AR-integrated RAS is not yet mature, we believe that if the current trend of development continues, it will soon demonstrate its clinical value.

13.	Handa A, Gaidhane A, Choudhari S G (June 23, 2024) Role of Robotic-Assisted Surgery in Public Health: Its Advantages and Challenges. Cureus 16(6): e62958. DOI 10.7759/cureus.6295
The modern hospital setting is closely related to engineering and technology. In a hospital, modern equipment is abundant in every department, including the operating room, intensive care unit, and laboratories. Thus, the quality of treatment provided in hospitals and technology advancements are closely tied. Robotic systems are used to support and improve the accuracy and agility of human surgeons during medical procedures. This surgical approach is commonly referred to as robotic surgery or robotic-assisted surgery (RAS). These systems are not entirely autonomous; they are managed by skilled surgeons who carry out procedures with improved accuracy and minimized invasiveness using a console and specialized instruments. Because RAS offers increased surgical precision, less discomfort after surgery, shorter hospital stays, and faster recovery time, all of which improve patient outcomes and lessen the strain on healthcare resources, it plays a critical role in public health.

14.	Dogangil G, Davies BL, Rodriguez y Baena F. A review of medical robotics for minimally invasive soft tissue surgery. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part H: Journal of Engineering in Medicine. 2009;224(5):653-679. 

This paper provides an overview of recent trends and developments in medical robotics for minimally invasive soft tissue surgery, with a view to highlight some of the issues posed and solutions proposed in the literature. The paper includes a thorough review of the literature, which focuses on soft tissue surgical robots developed and published in the last five years (between 2004 and 2008) in indexed journals and conference proceedings. Only surgical systems were considered; imaging and diagnostic devices were excluded from the review. The systems included in this paper are classified according to the following surgical specialties: neurosurgery; eye surgery and ear, nose, and throat (ENT); general, thoracic, and cardiac surgery; gastrointestinal and colorectal surgery; and urologic surgery.

	













